# hillaryassingment2
Hi Charlie, I'm glad that you reached out to me for advice! I am more than happy to assist an old friend. A couple of things I think you should know when writing in a professional setting: audience/purpose/occasion, document usability, and presenting data within documents. To start, let's discuss the audience/purpose/occasion. When writing about engineering, it's important you understand who you are writing for. Are you writing for your boss, your colleague, or for someone who has little to no understanding of the topic of engineering? These are things you must consider when you are formatting your writing. If it is your boss you are writing for -  keep it professional! Use professional and formal language when tailoring your email or document you are sending; keep it impersonal and straight to the point, no boss wants to read about your life story. If you are writing to your colleague, there is a little bit more room for informality but still, keep it professional. You can use engineering jargon for both your boss and colleague if it is fitting for the occasion (for example: if you are writing about your latest engineering software, you can use specific jargon to explain).However, if you are writing for someone who has little to no knowledge of engineering, do not use engineering jargon. I would suggest that you keep things simple. Remember, these people are not going to understand what you are talking about if you are using engineering specific terms. Use simple terms and words to express your point. When you are writing, it is important to express your purpose clearly and concisely. First, it is important that you know what it is you want to talk about. Secondly, I would suggest that you create an outline of what/how you are going to talk about. Next, find a way to format it in a way that is not too long or confusing. In professional writing we call this: too long, didn't read (tldr). In reality, no one is going to want to read something that is too long or if they do, they are not going to read the entire thing. Because of this, it is important to get straight to the point (but also important to not take out any of the important information in order to save space; learn to write in a concise manner). It is also important to keep in mind the occasion. Are you writing a document regarding a concern in your work or of a new finding or just a report?  Keep in mind why you are writing, and write for that occasion. If it is a professional occasion, keep it professional. If it is a complaint of a co-worker, ensure that you do not allow for your emotions to take over the document, but also be able to express your frustration. If you are writing of a new engineering discovery, write of prior literature and why you believe your engineering discovery is worth discussing or exploring. Next, I would like to discuss the importance of document usability. Because you are an engineer, it is integral that you ensure your document or software  is able to be seen and reached by anyone (especially your target audience.) One way that I would suggest you check document usability is checking your website, software, or document can be accessed with bad wifi. Next, if your software or website uses a search bar, I would highly suggest that you check your search bar usability. If you are coming up with a new software, check to see how accessible it is on bad wifi, if you cannot access it on bad wifi -  fix it!  Lastly, I would suggest that you keep in mind how you present your data in a document. For your career, it is important that you show data to back up your arguments or suggestions. Because of this, when you are creating data and implementing it into your document, it is important that you ensure that your data is easy to understand and also interesting/pleasing to the eye. Do not put too much information into a chart or graph and don’t use colors that make it difficult to differentiate data or are strikingly different. Furthermore, I would strongly encourage you to look at what sorts of information you are trying to convey and look at what sorts of graphs work best for displaying that sort of information. 
